- [Instructor] As we previously discussed,
the core plugins are the most often used plugins
within Apache Maven.
In order to talk about these plugins,
I actually want to use the Maven project website
as our direction, so I ask you to navigate
to https://maven.apache.org/plugins
and that'll take you to this page here.
Now we're going to talk about a few of the more common
core plugins and we're going to start with the compiler plugin.
The compiler plugin is actually responsible
for doing the compilation of your source code
and if you take a look there are several examples here
and you can look at different configurations within this.
But I want to focus on the Usage
It shows you here that you can execute Maven compile
or Maven test compile because the compiler plugin
will also be used in your test class loader as well
when you are doing test execution.
If you scroll down here, you see some basics
on configuring the plugin and this is very portable
and can get dropped right into your POM file.
Usually things like a compiler plugin
are put into the parent POM which is why you see
this documented on line four of this snippet
as plugin management because that's how you would specify it
for a parent POM, you also can just drop that
as a plugin itself in the parent
and it'll work just fine for all the subordinate artifacts.
Now I encourage you to take a look at some of these examples
especially when you're trying to solve needs
of the compiler plugin.
Go ahead and jump back here, the next one
I want to take a look at is the deploy plugin.
This is used really often within an organization
where you are done working on an artifact
and you want to publish it to your central repository
for others to use.
And if you're working on an open source project
this is how you're ultimately going to get code
out to Maven Central
Again, we'll take a look at the Usage here
and you'll see that you have this deploy
that's based on a repo and this distribution
management section is how the deploy plugin knows
to take your packaged artifact
and all of the metadata associated with it
and push it to your internal or external repositories.
As you really get into this you can also start to learn
how you can push associated JARs with your package
things like source JARs and documentation JARs
can also get deployed to your repositories
and it's actually highly encouraged to do that
so that others can look are your javadoc
and not just your code itself.
Furthermore, you can use the deploy plugin
to take a third party JAR and publish it
to your local repository, especially if it's not something
that's housed in Maven Central.
If let's say, you buy a software product
and they hand you a JAR file,
you may want to store that in your repository
for your own internal consumption
and if you don't have a POM file to publish it,
this allows you to generate a POM file
using the deploy plugin.
Let's jump back here and now we're going to take a look
at the resources plugin, now the resources plugin
is responsible for copying all of the files
and your resources or files elsewhere on your system
that you reference and putting them
into your packaged artifact.
This is how things like CSS and Java Script,
properties files, many other different kind of files
actually make it into your JAR
and by default, the resources folder
from the standard Maven Java package structure
gets automatically copied out of that resources folder
into your JAR for consumption,
and that's why we put those elements there.
You also get the same behavior on the test class loader
by using the test resources.
You can also do all kinds of custom copying
if you need to have share resources
from say, a network location brought into your project
you can set that up to the use of the resources plugin
and the Usage section kind of shows you what's going on
but more importantly if you go over here to the examples
and things like copying resources,
it will tell you how to set your project up
to bring in extra resources onto your project.
Jump back out to the beginning here.
The next one I want to take a look at is the surefire plugin
and the surefire plugin is what we've been using
to execute our JUnit test when we're doing builds.
This is a very powerful tool because often
you will write unit tests as part of your project
and you actually want to halt your build
if those unit tests fail and surefire allows you to do that.
In addition to the fact that the surefire plugin
produces xml documentation, it can then be converted
into a site document to allow you to see
the status of your testing.
Again, the Usage page shows you how to configure
that plugin from a base perspective
and there's also examples on using
different test frameworks outside of JUnit
using things like Cucumber, how to set up tests,
how to skip tests after failures, things like that.
Again you have a very large list of documentation
one of the real benefits of Apache Maven.
Let's jump back out to the beginning once again
and we're going to take a look at the last core plugin
that we're going to talk about today
and that's the failsafe plugin.
Now the failsafe plugin is really cool
if you are doing integration testing.
It allows you to put your integration test
into a separate structure within your project
and have those integration tests run
at any point in the lifecycle.
This is really powerful if you're deploying code
and then want to run those integration tests
as part of your standard build process.
In this example, it'll show you how to use
different types of things with this failsafe plugin
in addition to the standard usage.
So take a look at it, read the documentation,
you may find something of value here
especially if you are doing large-scale CICD
with Apache Maven.